---
title: MATH 1920 - Multivariable Calculus for Engineers
layout: post
---

<link rel="stylesheet" href="/main.css">

## General Information

A core math class. Either this or an equivalent multivariable class is required for all physics majors. This is a large class and generally people find it pretty tough, especially since a lot of the class involves visualizing things in 3-D. However, you will be applying the theorems in this class a lot in futue physics classes, so it's important to get comfortable with the course material.

## Prerequisites

MATH 1910 or AP Calc BC credit. You can take the CASE exam to test out of MATH 1910 if you didn't score high enough on the AP Calc BC exam.

## Topics Covered

  - Partial derivatives
  - Double and triple integrals
  - Line and surface integrals
  - Vector fields
  - Green's theorem
  - Stokes' theorem
  - Divergence theorem

## Workload

Weekly problem sets. Sometimes, participation in discussion session is graded via worksheets, depending on the instructor. 

Approximately 1 problem set per week. Additionally, one 10-minute homework quiz per week in discussion. 3 lectures and 1 discussion sections per week. Two prelims and one final. [Fall 2024]

## General Advice
  - Go to office hours
  - Form a study group with people in the class.
  - Your experience in the class will vary widely depending on who the instructor is. The common wisdom is that it is an easier class in the spring
  - Unless you took Calc III in HS from a legitimate university of a similar caliber to Cornell, I do not recommend skipping 1920. Most people who took the CASE and did not learn Calc III at a "Cornell level" end up needing to self-study things like Stokes Theorem later in their career. If you really think it is going to be too easy for you, you can skip it, but consider also that you might be foregoing some padding on the ol' GPA. 
  - I know that this class can seem really daunting. However, try not to panic. When possible, try to be interested in the math! It might be pretty difficult, but the contents will be very useful later on. Of course, doing practice prelims and textbook problems and prepare you for the exam really well. Finally, you must learn to apply concepts in order to do well instead of memorizing formulas. That's always the key to do well in any STEM classes. Plus, it also helps with memorization. [Fall 2024]

## Testimonials
1920 is a Costco-pack intro engineering sequence class. You can expect a couple hundred kids in your lecture and maybe one or two meaningful interactions with course staff (besides your TA, if you are a "raise your hand in discussion" kind of person). All of these factors do not exactly set you up for an enriching, horizon-expanding experience, so you are going to have to take matters into your own hands. First, realize that there is no way around 1920. You need it to move on in the physics sequence, and you will actually use concepts from the second half of the semester on a nearly dayly basis. Second, the math itself is actually pretty compelling, even if it is not necessarily always presented in a compelling way. When possible, look for reasons to be interested in the math - it can't hurt you. Finally, be prepared to think outside the box on the exams. The questions are designed to test how you can apply concepts to novel situations, so don't just memorize formulas.

This class is the hardest class that you might ever take in math. However, if you are majoring in physics or engineering, you will have to use gradients and the three fundamental theorems of vector calculus very often in E&M, so make sure you study well! [Fall 2024]

## Past Offerings

{:.past-offerings}
| Semester | Professor | Median Grade | Syllabus |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Fall 2018 | Reyer Sjamaar and Artem Pulemotov |  | <a href="http://pi.math.cornell.edu/~web1920/info.html">MATH1920_FA18</a> & [Course Page](https://pi.math.cornell.edu/~web1920/exam.html) |
| Fall 2019 | Reyer Sjamaar | B | N/A |
| Fall 2024 | Reyer Sjamaar | B+ | N/A |