---
title: MATH 4330 - Honors Linear Algebra
layout: post
---

<link rel="stylesheet" href="/main.css">

## General Information
Honors version of a course in advanced linear algebra, which treats the subject from an abstract and axiomatic viewpoint. Topics include vector spaces, linear transformations, polynomials, determinants, tensor and wedge products, canonical forms, inner product spaces, and bilinear forms. Emphasis is on understanding the theory of linear algebra; homework and exams include at least as many proofs as computational problems.

## Prerequisites
High level of performance in MATH 2210, MATH 2230, MATH 2940, or equivalent.

Strong proficiency in writing proofs is expected. More experience with proofs may be gained by first taking a 3000-level MATH course. MATH 4330–MATH 4340 is recommended for undergraduates who plan to attend graduate school in mathematics. For a less theoretical course that covers approximately the same subject matter as MATH 4330, see MATH 4310.

## Topics Covered


## Workload
Average. Weekly psets and in-class prelim(s) + final. [Fall 2023]

## General Advice
Probably not the most useful class to take for physics; 4310 gets the job done. Would consider this class only if thinking about a physics/math double major. Also probably not the best first theoretical/upper level math class you take (analysis might be better suited for that). However, if you want to learn your linear algebra really well, it's a good class to take. [Fall 2023]
  
## Testimonials
Highly professor-dependent class, both in lecture style and in content. As a part of the honors math sequence, the course is typically taught by a math professor who teaches graduate courses, and they sometimes go off on some abstract nonsensical tangents. Decent class to take; topics covered are quite important, although the level of abstraction is highly unnecessary for physicists. I tend to file linear algebra under "general life skills", and this course definitely made sure I understood linear algebra really well. Rating: 3/5. [Fall 2023]

## Past Offerings

{:.past-offerings}
| Semester | Professor | Median Grade | Syllabus |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Fall 2023 | Allen Knutson | B+/B? | |
