---
title: MATH 2930 - Differential Equations for Engineers
layout: post
---

<link rel="stylesheet" href="/main.css">

## General Information

A core mathematics course required for all physics majors, to be taken usually after MATH 1920, sometimes after MATH 2940.

## Prerequisites

MATH 1920

## Topics Covered

  - First order equations (separable, linear, homogeneous, exact)
  - Mathematical modeling (e.g., population growth, terminal velocity)
  - Qualitative methods (slope fields, phase plots, equilibria, and stability)
  - Numerical methods
  - Second-order equations (method of undetermined coefficients, application to oscillations and resonance, boundary-value problems and eigenvalues)
  - Fourier series
  - Partial differential equations (heat equation, wave equation, Laplace's equation)

## Workload
  - Depends on professor, but usually a typical workload for introductory engineering math class. Weekly textbook problem sets along with a quiz. 2 prelims and a final exam.

  - Starting 2023 the grading system of this course has changed to “standards-based” grading, where we get a list of learning outcomes (LOs) and for every quiz and exam you have the attempt to score off some of the learning outcomes. If you check the LO off during quiz you don't have to do it during exams. In total we have 4 quizzes, 2 prelims, and 1 finals. 
    
## General Advice
  - Go to office hours regularly. 

## Testimonials
  - I enjoy this particular grading system a lot because your grade does not depend on your class standing but rather how many topics you've "mastered". Professor Freund is also one of the best professor I've had so far. His lecture notes are in "worksheet" styles that provides lots of instruction, his canvas page is easy to follow, and he is very personable and responsible. [5/5] [Spring 2024]
    



## Past Offerings

{:.past-offerings}
| Semester | Professor | Median Grade | Syllabus |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Fall 2018 | Alex Townsend | N/A | [Course Page](https://pi.math.cornell.edu/~aniepla/FA18Math2930.html) |
| Spring 2020 | Alan Zehnder | N/A (Covid Policy) | <a href="/syllabi/MATH2930_SP20.pdf">MATH2930_SP20.pdf</a> |
| Spring 2022 | Alexander Vladimirsky | B+ | NA |
| Spring 2025 | David Freund |  |<a href="MATH2930_SP25.pdf">MATH2930_SP25.pdf</a> |
