---
title: MATH 4210 - Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos
layout: post
---

<link rel="stylesheet" href="/main.css">

## General Information

Introduction to nonlinear dynamics and chaos, the study of systems that do not obey a simplified linear form, in which their behavior can become hard to predict. Applications in physics, chemsitry, biology, and engineering, such as fluid flow, will also be explored.

## Prerequisites

The introductory math sequence class (MATH 2210-2220, MATH 2230-2240, or MATH 1920-2940) and familiarity with proofs (a 3000-level math class would be beneficial). MATH 2930 or equivalent preparation in differential equations. 

## Topics Covered

- One-dimensional systems 
- Bifurcations 
- Phase plane
- Nonlinear oscillators 
- Lorenz equations 
- Chaos
- Strange attractors
- Fractals
- Iterated mappings 
- Period doubling 
- Renormalization

## Workload

3-4 hr/wk [Fall 2024]

## General Advice

The textbook is very readable and the course follows it very closely. [Fall 2024]

## Testimonials

Professor Strogatz teaches the class to be as engaging and as understandable as possible. You need very little math background outside of calculus to understand the course. The homeworks are fairly straightforward, but can be difficult at times. Exams are in class and can be quick in a 50 minute class but are doable. Overall it is an interesting and fun course that is worth taking if you are interested in differential equations and applications of dynamics. Rating: 4/5. [Fall 2024]

## Resources
- [Spring 2014 lecture videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLbN57C5Zdl6j_qJA-pARJnKsmROzPnO9V)

## Past Offerings

{:.past-offerings}
| Semester | Professor | Median Grade | Syllabus |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Fall 2024 | Steven Strogatz | B+? | <a href="/syllabi/MATH4210_FA24.pdf">MATH4210_FA24.pdf</a> |
