---
title: MATH 1910 - Calculus for Engineers
layout: post
---

<link rel="stylesheet" href="/main.css">

## General Information

Essentially a second course in calculus. This course introduces integral calculus, so it expects students have experience in differential calculus.

## Prerequisites

Three years high school mathematics, including trigonometry and logarithms, and at least one course in differential and integral calculus or equivalent AP credit.

## Topics Covered

  - Techniques of integration
  - Finding areas and volumes by integration
  - Exponential growth
  - Partial fractions
  - Infinite sequences and series
  - Tests of convergence
  - Power series

## Workload

Weekly problem sets are graded on completion. In discussion, weekly 10-minute quizzes are given but are based on homework from the previous week. 

## General Advice

  - Even though homework is graded on completion, try your best to complete it well, as it helps with preparation for quizzes
  - Although the formulas used seem to only need values to plug in, ensure you understand them, as this often varies when confronting harder problems
  - Take your time on prelims, most mistakes are made through errors in algebraic manipulation, not solving problems

## Testimonials

1910 is exactly what's to be expected from an integral calculus class. Considering it's required for all engineering students, your lectures and discussions will be packed, which will be limiting in what you'll ultimately be able to take away from interactions with your TA and professor. However, the material is compelling and allows one to go beyond what surface-level knowledge one may have of integration from prior experience. It should be noted though that levels of experience are varied in the class, and many students have already been exposed to the majority of the concepts taught, so don't worry if you feel a bit behind the pack. Still, if you'd like your learning to be amplified while studying 1910, Professor Bernard's lectures are often exciting and helpful in the ways new concepts are presented. Prelims are generally of an average difficulty level and don't try to challenge you too much, but ensure that you know how to apply concepts in a variety of different ways in exercises, as this is where the majority of the challenge originates from.

## Past Offerings

{:.past-offerings}
| Semester | Professor | Median Grade | Course Page |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Fall 2023 | Jason Manning, Carl Bernard, and Peter Doerschuk |  |  |
