---
title: MATH 2940 - Linear Algebra for Engineers
layout: post
---

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../main.css">

## General Information

The College of Engineering's version of linear algebra and the one recommended by the physics department for physics majors. 4 credits, offered in the fall and the spring. 

## Prerequisites

Math 1920 (Calc III) is listed as a prerequisite. Towards the end of the course, some professors have chosen to devote a few lectures to applications of linear algebra to differential equations, but 2940 is generally a self-contained course and can be taken with minimal calculus background. [Fall 2022]

## Topics Covered

  - Solving systems of linear equations
  - Invertible matrices
  - Determinants
  - Vector Spaces and Subspaces
  - Eigenvalues and eigenvectors 
  - Markov Chains, Difference Equations, Stochastic Matrices
  - Orthonormality
  - Least squares regression
  - Diagonalization
  - Singular Value Decomposition

## Workload

  - 1 weekly homework. Weekly discussions with a 15 minute quizz. 2 prelims and a final. Pretty standard workload for the engineering math sequence. [Fall 2022]

## General Advice

  - Most people will not take 2940 as their first engineering math course because of the recommended physics sequence at Cornell. 2940 is very similar to 1910, 1920, and 2930. Any tips/tricks you learned in those classes will likely work fine in 2940. [Fall 2022]

## Testimonials

  - Linear algebra is very useful for later physics courses. Few people have a very profound reaction to it though. Try to really master certain types of problems that will pop up again and again, like eigenvector/eigenvalue problems, and appreciate it for what it's worth. In Fall 2022, the prelims and exams had slighly low medians, but it all comes out in the curve. [Fall 2022]

## Past Offerings

{:.past-offerings}
| Semester | Professor | Median Grade | Course Page |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Fall 2020 | Alex Townsend | B+ | <a href="/syllabi/MATH2940_FA20.pdf">MATH2940_FA20.pdf</a> |
| Fall 2022 | Michael Stillman | B+ | <a href="/syllabi/MATH2940_FA22.pdf">MATH2940_FA22.pdf</a> |
