---
title: PHYS 3316 - Basics of Quantum Mechanics
layout: post
---

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../main.css">

## General Information

This is generally the first class taken after the physics intro sequence. While the workload for the class is lower than in the intro sequence, the topics covered are more difficult to conceptualize. The class is pretty self-contained, which is useful if you aren't confident in your math background. Important concepts like eigenvalues and Fourier transforms are taught along the way. You can watch previous online lectures [here](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCqk5h2HlmSVOPQtXFrSHglw/playlists).

## Prerequisites

PHYS 2214/PHYS 2218; PHYS 1116/PHYS1112+PHYS 2216; coregistration in MATH 2940/MATH 2210/MATH 2230.

## Topics Covered

  - Breakdown of classical concepts in microphysics
  - Light quanta and matter waves
  - DeBroglie Hypothesis
  - Schrödinger equation and solutions for square well, harmonic oscillator, and the hydrogen atom
  - Wave packets
  - Scattering and tunneling effects
  - Angular momentum, spin, and magnetic moments

## Workload

Weekly problem sets, two prelims and a final exam. There are three lectures and one discussion section per week. Problem sets with Arias are long and will require a lot of time per week to finish, but the workload varies across professors and semesters.

Medium, not really hard just long and tedious [Fall 2022]

## General Advice

Read Griffiths [Fall 2022]

## Testimonials

I like the subject matter, I just didnt vibe with the prof and lecture style [Fall 2022]

## Past Offerings

{:.past-offerings}
| Semester | Professor | Median Grade | Syllabus |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Spring 2021 | Tomás Arias | B+ | <a href="/syllabi/PHYS3316_SP21.pdf">PHYS3316_SP21.pdf</a> |
