---
title: PHYS 1116 - Mechanics and Special Relativity
layout: post
---

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../main.css">

## General Information

First course in the honors introductory physics sequence. Either this or PHYS 1112 is required for all physics majors. 
PHYS 1110 is a required corequisite.

## Prerequisites

Calculus II credit (AP Calculus BC, MATH 1910, MATH 1120, or equivalent).

## Topics Covered

  - Coordinate Systems
  - Kinematics
  - Dynamics
  - Conservation laws
  - Central force fields
  - Periodic motion
  - Special relativity

## Workload

A lot, especially since this is usually the first college-level physics class physics majors take. Weekly quizzes and problem sets, with one problem a week
being a "write up" problem. 3 lectures, 2 discussion sections, and 1 lab section per week. [Fall 2021]

Moderate, there isn't a lot of work, it's just the work itself is very difficult [Fall 2022]

Approximately 1 problem set per week with 5 to 6 problems. Additionally, one 15-minute homework quiz per week in discussion. 3 lectures and 2 discussion sections per week. [Fall 2022]

## General Advice

  - Don't underestimate your abilities! This class is meant to be hard, but if you work at it, then it will start to become manageable [Fall 2021]
  - Don't leave the problem sets until the last minute, you'll make mistakes [Fall 2021]
  - Form a study group with students in class [Fall 2021]
  - Don't automatically drop the course if you struggle on the first quiz. In previous semesters, a substantial number of the quiz grades get dropped. It may take some time for you to get used to the quiz format, so consider whether you think you can improve your performance on the quizzes before you drop the course [Fall 2021]
  - The intro mechanics sequence is designed so that you can easily switch from 1116 to 1112. I'd recommend holding out for as long as you can before making a decision about which course to take if you are enjoying 1116 but aren't thrilled with your grade [Fall 2021]
  - During the course of the semester, you will encounter some "touchstone" problems, which you will probably see as examples in the textbook, in lecture, and then again on your homework. You will be well advised to learn the ins and outs of these systems, because minor variations of these systems are very predictable exam problems. Don't just memorize the solution! [Fall 2021]
  - Have some fun with it! The fact that 1116 is an "honors" course often makes people feel stressed out and uncomfortable. Everybody is just as incompetent as you, so try to enjoy it wherever possible [Fall 2021]
  - Truly understanding the topics requires a lot of studying outside the homework. [Fall 2022]
  - Go to homework parties and office hours! They help so much. [Fall 2022]
  
## Testimonials
This course is intended to be a bridge between high school physics and college physics. Set your expectations accordingly - you are going to be looking at the bread and butter mechanics concepts (forces, momentum, energy) for what may be the second or third time depending on your high school preparation. However, the presentation is almost certainly going to be different from what you saw in high school; there will be a stronger emphasis on derivations, generality, and mathematical sophistication. For example, you will probably learn about the precise definition of inertial systems before you are introduced (or re-introduced, or re-re-introduced) to Newton's Laws. This might seem dry if you are looking forward to more whizz-bang physics and are instead asked to solve a block and pulley system for the umpteenth time. That being said, there are pockets of real elegance and beauty sprinkled into the course (like the section on oscillators, or Special Relativity). Pay attention to whether you enjoy "grown-up" physics, including lengthy derivations and complex systems. If you do, keep going on the honors sequence - this subject just might be for you. P.S. I'm not suggesting that you come about a file for the textbook via disreputable means, but one would be able to find one online if they were to look. [Fall 2021]

I thoroughly enjoyed this class -- it is an exciting introduction to physics at Cornell. However, there is a general shock factor with the difficulty of the problem sets, quizzes, and prelims. This shock factor is amended by the resources available. Office hours and homework parties are where many crucial content details are communicated. I especially loved Professor Maxson's lectures and teaching. He is a very engaging, passionate, and caring professor. [Fall 2022]

## Past Offerings

{:.past-offerings}
| Semester | Professor | Median Grade | Syllabus |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Fall 2019 | Jim Alexander | B | <a href="/syllabi/PHYS1116_FA19.pdf">PHYS1116_FA19.pdf</a> |
| Fall 2020 | Kyle Shen |  | <a href="/syllabi/PHYS1116_FA20.pdf">PHYS1116_FA20.pdf</a> |
| Fall 2021 | Eun-Ah Kim | A | <a href="/syllabi/PHYS1116_FA21.pdf">PHYS1116_FA21.pdf</a>|
| Fall 2022 | Jarod Maxson | | <a href="/syllabi/PHYS1116_FA22.pdf">PHYS1116_FA22.pdf</a>|
