---
title: PHYS 2217 - Electricity and Magnetism
layout: post
---

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../main.css">

## General Information

Second course in the honors introductory physics sequence. Either this or PHYS 2213 is required for all physics majors. 

## Prerequisites

Strong performance in PHYS 1116 or very strong performance in PHYS 1112, and vector calculus at the level of  MATH 1920, MATH 2220, or MATH 2240.

## Topics Covered

  - Electrostatics
  - Behavior of matter in electric fields
  - Circuits
  - Magnetic fields
  - Faraday's law and induction
  - AC circuits
  - Maxwell's Equations and Special Relativity
  - Electromagnetic waves

## Workload

Weekly problem sets and quizzes. 2 prelims and a final exam. This is generally considered the hardest class of the physics introductory sequence. There are three lectures and 1 discussion section per week. [Spring 2022]

1 pset a week [Fall 2022]

## General Advice

  - Don't underestimate your abilities! This class is meant to be hard, but if you work at it, then it will start to become manageable [Fall 2022]
  - Don't leave the problem sets until the last minute, you'll make mistakes [Spring 2022]
  - Form a study group with students in class [Spring 2022]
  - It's possible to make up for a poor background in Calc III, but it will very useful to know how to perform basic vector calculus operations (divergence, curl, gradient) in multiple coordinate systems (no need to memorize formulas though), and to fully appreciate Divergence Theorem and Stokes Theorem going in to the class [Spring 2022]
  - This course rewards effort spent getting an intuitive understanding of how different fields behave under different conditions. Problems can be greatly simplified by first reasoning about symmetries and properties of fields before hammering out an equation. Try to develop this skill early and practice it throughout the semester [Spring 2022]
  - Practice early and often. As in any physics course, certain types of systems are going to keep rearing their heads over and over, like the gyroscope in 1116. For example, you will see different configurations of capacitors all the time. There are only so many different questions one can ask about a capacitor, so it is to your advantage to have practiced solving problems with capacitors before exam time [Spring 2022]
  - Don't get scared away by the reputation. 2217 often has a lower median than 1116, and the content is sometimes less familiar depending on your background. That being said, 2217 is much more rewarding and rigorous than 2213, and so it is worth sticking it out even through a bumpy prelim or two [Spring 2022]
  - You don't need to have taken 1116 to get a lot out of 2217. Advanced concepts in mechanics (besides Special Relativity) rarely appear, and when they do they are often re-introduced. That being said, while it may be possible to succeed with no advance background in SR, it is better to have one. SR takes time to sink in and crystallize in your brain, so cramming it for an exam can be a stressful and unsuccessful experience. [Spring 2022]
  - Make sure you at least read the pset problems before your discussion section! Otherwise, it's hard to gain much from the TA reviewing the problems. [Fall 2022]

## Testimonial

I took 2217 in Spring 2022 with Prof. Xu. By observing myself and other students in the class, I learned that there are many ways to succeed in 2217, and only a few ways to fail. Some people attended every single lecture while others rarely went at all. Some people entered the class with a great deal of exposure to E&M/Calc III, while others had significantly less. Some people solved PSets in groups, others alone. Most succeeded. While I am sure that certain behaviors are correlated with better performance in the course (particularly if you fall into the less-prepared camp), at the end of the day it is possible to do very well as long as you spend the requisite time solving problems and building up a conceptual framework for how fields and potentials behave. People (myself most heartily included) often stress a lot about this course because of its reputation as "the hardest intro course" and so they think that the path to success is much more complicated than it is, but it really is as simple as spending the time to make the analysis of electromagnetic systems second nature. Getting thorugh the course is a very rewarding milestone, so don't sell yourelf short. Give it a try, and put yourself in the best position you can! [Spring 2022]

Great class, definitely assumes some prior experience with E&M. [Fall 2022]

## Past Offerings

{:.past-offerings}
| Semester | Professor | Median Grade | Syllabus |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Spring 2020 | Michael Niemack | N/A (Covid Policy) | <a href="/syllabi/PHYS2217_SP20.pdf">PHYS2217_SP20.pdf</a> |
| Spring 2022 | Chris Xu | Unknown | <a href="/syllabi/PHYS2217_SP22.pdf">PHYS2217_SP20.pdf</a> |
| Fall 2022 | Abigail Crites | | <a href="/syllabi/PHYS2217_FA22.pdf">PHYS2217_FA22.pdf</a>|
