---
title: PHYS 2216 - Introduction to Special Relativity
layout: post
---

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../main.css">

## General Information

This course is an introduction to Einstein's Theory of Special Relativity. It is required for physics majors who took PHYS 1112 or PHYS 2207 instead of PHYS 1116. It only meets for half a semester, with an in-class final exam.

## Prerequisites

PHYS 1112 or PHYS 2207.

## Topics Covered

  - Galilean and Lorentz transformations 
  - Simultaneity
  - Time dilation and Lorentz contraction
  - Relativistic transformations of velocity
  - Momentum and energy 
  - Relativistic invariance in the laws of physics

## Workload

A couple of in-class collaborative quizzes and weekly problem sets. The problems sets are not too challenging but require a couple of hours of concentrated work. Overall, the workload is moderate for that of a two-credit class. Since the class is only half a semester, the work seems to be fair. [Spring 2023]

## General Advice

  - Participation is a big part of the grade, so attendance is important [Spring 2023]
  - Go to office hours if you have any questions about the problem sets [Spring 2023]

## Testimonials

This course is a graduation requirement for all physics majors who did not take 1116. On top of that, it is only graded Pass/Fail, which makes it pretty low-stress. The only challenge is its early time, but since it only last for half of a semseter it isn't that big of a deal. Prof. Fullbright cares about the material and tries his best to explain the confusing topics. He is also really helpful during office hours. Overall, I had a great experince with the class. [Spring 2023]

## Past Offerings

{:.past-offerings}
| Semester | Professor | Median Grade | Course Page |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Spring 2023 | Robert Fullbright |  |  |
