---
title: AEP 1200 - Introduction to Nanoscience and Nanoengineering
layout: post
---

<link rel="stylesheet" href="/main.css">

## General Information

Lecture/laboratory course designed to introduce first-year students to some of the ideas and concepts of nanoscience and nanotechnology with stronger emphasis on nanobiotechnology in the spring semester. Topics include nanoscience and nanotechnology-what they are and why they are of interest; atoms and molecules; the solid state; surfaces; behavior of light and material particles when confined to nanoscale dimensions; scanning tunneling microscopy (STM), atomic force microscopy (AFM), scanning electron microscopy (SEM); microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) design; basic micromachining and chemical synthesis methods, i.e., “top-down” and “bottom-up” approaches to nanofabrication; how to manipulate structures on the nanoscale; physical laws and limits they place on the nanoworld; some far-out ideas. In the laboratory, students construct a simple STM to record atomic resolution images; learn through hands on experience the basic workings of an SEM; use a MEMS computer-aided design software package to model the entire manufacturing sequence of a simple MEMS device, examine the simulated behavior of the device and compare it with real behavior; investigate the optical properties of quantum dots and the unexpected properties of fluids that flow through narrow channels.

Outcome 1: An introductory understanding of quantum mechanics and optics as applied to nanoscience and nanotechnology.

Outcome 2: Acquired a basic understanding of the tools and fabrication techniques used in nanoscience and nanotechnology.

## Prerequisites


## Topics Covered

Topics include:
- Nanoscience and Nanotechnology – what they are and why they are of interest (~3 lectures)
- Nanofabrication – how to make nanoscale structures (~8 lectures)
- Nanocharacterization – how to measure nanoscale structures (~4 lectures)
- Applications of nanoscale materials and devices (~9 lectures)
- Fundamental physical processes that underlie nanoscience (~4 lectures and throughout course)

Laboratory topics:
- Crystal radio (Lab 1)
- Photolithography and thin-film deposition (Labs 2-4)
- Microfluidics (Labs 5a-5b)
- Synthesis and imaging of nanostructures (Labs 6-7)
- Scanning tunneling microscopy (Lab 8)
- Semiconductor nanostructures: quantum dots (Lab 9)
- Giant magnetoresistance (Lab 10)
- Tour of Cornell Nanofabrication Facility

## Workload

One problem set (reasonably short; usually 1-2 hrs), prelab assignment (very short), and lab report (the bulk of the workload; somewhere between 5-10 hrs) every week. One prelim and a final. [Fall 2021]

## General Advice

  - Go to office hours. There aren't that many external resources (ex. textbooks) suitable for this course, given that it is a freshman-level survey course of a complex and very modern topic. The course staff, therefore, are your best resources. The lab manual, course notes, and lecture videos are very thorough and useful as well. During lab, record all the numbers you need and save the calculations for later. To lessen the workload from the lab reports, it is helpful to begin answering the analysis questions while you are doing the lab, as these constitute the majority of the content of the lab reports. The introduction, sources of error, and conclusion can then be quickly completed afterwards. [Fall 2021]

## Testimonials

This was one of the most engaging and informative classes I have ever taken at Cornell. This class simplified complex, current research topics down to a level approachable by someone with a very basic understanding of high school physics. Of course, you had to put in the work; the lab reports took quite a bit of time and the exams were challenging (but ultimately fair). It was an incredible privilege to have the opportunity to not only learn about, but also gain hands-on experience with nanoscience as a freshman. The lab tour of the nanoscale facility was also a blast. Furthermore, the professor was very knowledgeable (truthfully, an expert, and she would sometimes even include results from her own research on the slides!) and dedicated to making sure the students understood the concepts. This course set the standard for what Cornell AEP strives to be--at the forefront of some of the world's most cutting-edge physics research, with the best faculty and facilities. [Fall 2021]

## Past Offerings

{:.past-offerings}
| Semester | Professor | Median Grade | Syllabus |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Fall 2021 | Lena Kourkoutis | B+ | <a href="/syllabi/AEP1200_FA21.pdf">AEP1200_FA21.pdf</a> |
