---
title: AEP 3330 - Mechanics of Particles and Solid Bodies
layout: post
---

<link rel="stylesheet" href="/main.css">

## General Information

Newtonian mechanics, especially with dissipative forces; objects rotating around a constant direction and possibly translating, using both torque and energy; coupled and damped-driven linear oscillations and an introduction to nonlinear systems; an introduction to variational calculus; Lagrangian and Hamiltonian formalism for generalized coordinates; central-force motion and a brief introduction to scattering; non-inertial reference systems; 3D motion of rigid bodies. (At the level of Classical Dynamics by Marion and Thornton and Classical Mechanics by John Taylor).
## Prerequisites

Prerequisite: PHYS 1112 or PHYS 1116. Corequisite: AEP 4200 or equivalent or permission of instructor. Co-meets with AEP 5330.

## Topics Covered

Curvilinear coordinates and other ways to approach velocity
 

Review of Newtonian mechanics, including dissipative forces (friction & drag)
 

Center of mass and moment of inertia I (with respect to origin at either center of mass or pivot), with application to angular momentum, torque, and kinetic energy.
 

Linear oscillators with damping and driving forces, or coupled oscillators
 

Brief introduction to nonlinear systems (the real world) – surprises include chaos!
 

The calculus of variations (e.g. what y(x) minimizes , given fixed endpoints?)
 

Lagrangians and Hamiltonians (useful for quantum, statistical mechanics, robots, …)
 

 

Motion in a central force (e.g. Earth around Sun, which helps some with electron around proton)
 

 

Brief intro to scattering (with terms like “cross section” & “solid angle”)
 

 

Accelerated reference frames
(if you stick coordinate axes to Earth you get small but key corrections)

 

 

Full 3D treatment of rigid body motion (e.g. spinning tops). I will become a tensor because angular momentum  is not always parallel to angular velocity .

## Workload
- Weekly problem sets
- Disucssion and Lecture worksheets that count for participation 
## General Advice
The textbook is not that rigourous, but it definetly helps make the class feel more structured. Going to discussion section is typically helpful - the worksheets sometimes have near identical problems to the problem set.

## Testimonials
I was hoping this class would open my eyes and show me what true beauty is, just as the physics students describe Maxon's Analystical Mechanics class. Unfortunately, this was not the case. AEP 3330's lectures consist of the professor panting and pointing to a slideshow with text from every color of the visible spectrum as she twirls around to demonstrate the conservation of angular momentum, the 9th time we have seen this demonstation in our education thus far. The textbook is quite readable and covers almost every topic in mechanics, although it frequently refrains from exploring deeper and refers to a more rigourous text. When learning new topics, such as chaos, the class is very interesting. It is just not often that this happens. Our first prelim was just an easier version of the first prelim of Physics 1116. The problem sets of this class are usually the cause of most complaint. The biggest challenge is usually figuring out what the question is asking. The average word count for each problem set is around 1750 words, so get ready to learn broken english. The "questions" themselves usually spend about 400-500 words trying to explain what to do, and you usually end up more confused. Going to office hours is helpful for finding the question mark hidden within the questions. In summary, this class is awsome.  

## Past Offerings

{:.past-offerings}
| Semester | Professor | Median Grade | Syllabus |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  |  |  |  |
