---
title: AEP 4300 - Advanced Mathematical Physics
layout: post
---

<link rel="stylesheet" href="/main.css">

## General Information

## Prerequisites

Prerequisite: AEP 4200. Co-meets with AEP 5300.

## Topics Covered
Covers integral equations, Friedholm equations, kernels, complex variable theory, branch points and cuts, Riemann sheets, method of steepest descent, method of constant phase, tensors, contravariant and covariant representations, group theory, matrix representations, class and character.



## Workload

Light, 4 problem sets during the semester, 1 midterm, 1 final. Problem sets aren’t long, but there’s no TA or help resources available, so could be a bit difficult at times. [Spring 2024]

## General Advice

  - You have to know how to do problem sets on your own without any office hour help in this course. Other than that, if you just want a light math course in your schedule, this one could be nice. If you actually want to learn a lot of useful math things, I don’t think this is the right course to take. [Spring 2024]

## Testimonials

Interesting course, but not enough material for the whole semester, so gets boring at times. The book isn’t that great at explaining, so it could be difficult to understand at times. Prof. Kusse tried hard to make it engaging by bringing in other people to do lectures, which was nice. If the course taught more things, it’d be definitely worth taking. Rating: 3/5. [Spring 2024]

## Past Offerings

{:.past-offerings}
| Semester | Professor | Median Grade | Syllabus |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  |  |  |  |
