---
title: PHYS 3310 - Intermediate Experimental Physics
layout: post
---

<link rel="stylesheet" href="/main.css">

## General Information

Would you find it appealing to operate a physical system that allows you to sharply distinguish between rational and irrational numbers? How about using a microwave thermometer to measure the temperature of a distant object namely the sun's outer surface? Would you like to quantitatively observe the transformation of a confined electromagnetic wave into one that propagates away into the rest of the universe? In Physics 3310, you will have experiences such as these as you decide for yourself how valid or applicable various theoretical results are that you have already encountered or look forward to encountering in 3000-level intermediate-level courses such as  quantum and classical mechanics and electrodynamics. You'll acquire  essential skills to tease out the truth about nature as an experimental physicist with particular emphasis on the awareness and management of uncertainty. The environment of 3310 promotes individual creativity and discovery with the encouragement and aid of coursemates and staff.

## Prerequisites

PHYS 2208, PHYS 2214 or PHYS 2218.

## Topics Covered

  - 

## Workload



## General Advice

  - 

## Testimonials


## Alternatives

There exist several lab alternatives to PHYS 3310, 3330, and 3360:

- ASTRO 4410: Experimental Astronomy
- AEP 3640: Modern Applied Physics Experimental Design
- BEE 4500: Bioinstrumentiation

These labs allow students to undertake deeper dives into the fields of astronomy, applied physics, and biophysics respectively.


## Past Offerings

{:.past-offerings}
| Semester | Professor | Median Grade | Course Page |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Spring 2021 | Carl Franck | A- |  |
