---
title: PHYS 6554 - General Relativity II
layout: post
---

<link rel="stylesheet" href="/main.css">

## General Information
A continuation of PHYS 6553 and ASTRO 6509 that covers a variety of advanced topics and applications of general relativity in astrophysics, cosmology, and high-energy physics.


## Prerequisites

PHYS 6553 or permission of instructor.

## Topics Covered

  - Black hole thermodynamics
  - Other advanced topics in black hole physics such as rotation, perturbations, merger and ringdown, superradiance, singularity theorems, and properties of the horizon.
  - de Sitter and anti-de Sitter spacetimes
  - The mathematics of hypersurfaces and geodesic congruences
  - Energy and the Hamiltonian in GR

## Workload

  - 10 Problem sets ~5-15hours/week, and a final presentation. [SP23]
  - The workload for this class is honestly really chill. There were a total of 5 psets, each of which took maybe 10 hours, and one final project. There were no exams. Compared to the first semester GR course. This was nothing. [SP25]

## General Advice

- Easier than the first general relativity course. [SP23]
- I recommend giving this class a try if it at all aligns with your research experience! [SP25]

## Testimonials

- Very fun; we covered Hawking radiation at the end, but the topics vary year to year. [SP23]
- I strongly recommend this course to anyone interested in GR related research, either astrophysical, theoretical, or other. Once you have taken one semester of GR, this course is really accessible. Professor Hartman is awesome. I would say it helps to make friends in the class to discuss homework or other work together. We used "A Relativist's Toolkit" by Poisson. [SP25]

## Past Offerings

{:.past-offerings}
| Semester | Professor | Median Grade | Syllabus |
| --- | --- | --- | ---|
| Spring 2023 | Tom Hartman | N/A | <a href="/syllabi/PHYS6554_SP23.pdf">PHYS6554_SP23.pdf</a> |
| Spring 2025 | Tom Hartman | N/A | <a href="/syllabi/PHYS6554_SP25.pdf">PHYS6554_SP25.pdf</a> |
