---
title: PHYS 3360/AEP 3630 - Electronic Circuits
layout: post
---

<link rel="stylesheet" href="/main.css">

## General Information

Counts for the physics lab requirement. Crosslisted with AEP 3630.

Offered Fall and Spring. 

Practical electronics as encountered in a scientific or engineering research/development environment. Analyze, design, build, and test circuits using discrete components and integrated circuits. Analog circuits: resistors, capacitors, operational amplifiers, feedback amplifiers, oscillators, comparators, passive and active filters, diodes, and transistor switches and amplifiers. Digital circuits: combinational and sequential logic (gates, flipflops, registers, counters, timers), analog to digital (ADC) and digital to analog (DAC) conversion, signal averaging, and computer architecture and interfacing. Additional topics may include analog and digital signal processing, light wave communications, transducers, noise reduction techniques, and computer-aided circuit design. At the level of Art of Electronics by Horowitz and Hill.

## Prerequisites

E&M credit (PHYS 2208, PHYS 2213, or PHYS 2217)

## Topics Covered

- Resistors, capacitors, diodes
- Operational amplifiers
- Feedback amplifiers, oscillators, comparators
- Passive and active filters
- Transistor switches and amplifiers
- Combinational and sequential logic (gates, flipflops, registers, counters, timers)
- Analog to digital (ADC) and digital to analog (DAC) conversion
- Signal averaging
- Computer architecture and interfacing

## Workload

- A lot. Two 3 hour labs per week, with lab report and one homework assignment due every week. One midterm and a final.
- A six credit course that's listed as a three credit.

## General Advice

The lab manual knows all. The manual is your go-to guide for pretty much everything, and the problems at the end of each chapter help study for the prelim. It is also helpful to read the chapter before going to lab. This is hard to get around to considering how much work the class already is, but you will be much more efficient during the lab period.

## Testimonials
This class is quite infamous in the physics/AEP community here at Cornell. The 6hrs/week of lab is grueling, but it is usually straightforward and Kirkland and the TA are there to help. Following the manual like  a "recipe" will get you an 85% on the labs. Doing the optional experiments and doing anything "extra" will get you some more points. 

## Alternatives

There exist several lab alternatives to PHYS 3310, 3330, and 3360:

- ASTRO 4410: Experimental Astronomy
- AEP 3640: Modern Applied Physics Experimental Design
- BEE 4500: Bioinstrumentiation

These labs allow students to undertake deeper dives into the fields of astronomy, applied physics, and biophysics respectively.

## Resources
- <a href="https://courses.cit.cornell.edu/aep3630/index.html">SP25 Course Material</a>
- <a href="https://www.classe.cornell.edu/~ib38/teaching/p360/lectures/">Lecture Notes</a>
- <a href="https://courses.cit.cornell.edu/aep3630/allchpTOC.pdf">Lab Manual Table of Content</a>

## Past Offerings

{:.past-offerings}
| Semester | Professor | Median Grade | Syllabus |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Spring 2022 | Earl Kirkland |  | <a href="/syllabi/PHYS3360_SP22.pdf">PHYS3360_SP22.pdf</a> |
