---
title: PHYS 4445 - Introduction to General Relativity
layout: post
---

<link rel="stylesheet" href="/main.css">

## General Information

A one-semester introduction to general relativity that develops the essential structure and phenomenology of the theory without requiring prior exposure to tensor analysis. General relativity is a fundamental cornerstone of physics that underlies several of the most exciting areas of current research, including relativistic astrophysics, cosmology, and the search for a quantum theory of gravity. At the level of Gravity: An Introduction to Einstein's General Relativity by Hartle.

## Prerequisites

Classical mechanics at the level of PHYS 3318 and special relativity at the level of PHYS 1116 or PHYS 2216. Electromagnetism at the level of PHYS 3327 is useful.

## Topics Covered

  - Special relativity
  - Differential geometry
  - Metrics
  - Geodesics
  - The Riemann tensor
  - Black hole spacetimes
  - Cosmological solutions
  - The Einstein equation and its linearized gravitational wave solutions

## Workload

weekly psets, 1 prelim, 1 final [Fall 2024]

## General Advice

  - Don’t fall behind! The problem sets are key to understanding the material, so it’s good to stay on track because there’s a LOT of ground to cover. Calculations are probably the most annoying part of the class as a lot of new notation is introduced fairly quickly, but taking the time to learn it as it shows up will serve you well. [Fall 2024]

## Testimonials

The problem sets definitely took a fair bit of time, but you definitely learn a lot from this class. Flanagan took us on a nice tour of gravity and general relativity while helping us build the mathematical tools needed along the way. Succinct lectures and approachable outside of class. Great introduction to the topic! Rating: 5/5. [Fall 2024]

## Past Offerings

{:.past-offerings}
| Semester | Professor | Median Grade | Course Page |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  |  |  |  |
