---
title: PHYS 3318 - Analytical Mechanics
layout: post
---

<link rel="stylesheet" href="/main.css">

## General Information

Introduces more formalism to the basic mechanics concepts taught throughout the intro sequence. Covers both analytical and numerical methods for solving problems in mechanics.

## Prerequisites

Completion of physics introductory sequence.

## Topics Covered

  - Lagrangian and Hamiltonian formulations of Newtonian mechanics
  - Conservation laws from symmetries
  - Two-body orbits in a central force
  - Systems undergoing small amplitude oscillations
  - Rigid body motion
  - Motion in non-inertial reference frames
  - Perturbation theory
  - Nonlinear behavior

## Workload

Weekly problem sets, two prelims, and a final exam. 

1 problem set per week, 11 total per semester; 2 in-class prelims (50 mins) and a final exam (2 hrs 30 mins); weekly discussion section (attendance optional) [Spring 2023]

## General Advice
In this class, the lecture notes, problem sets, practice exams, and exam practice problems (yes, so much review content) are well thought out and useful for studying. While it's possible to find practice problems in the (typically three) textbooks that are loosely associated with this course, I found that the best approach for studying was to really understand the provided materials in the course. The course is pretty much self-contained. Use that your advantage and don't waste time (unless you want to) trying to hunt down random textbook problems.

## Testimonials
This course is often slept on, particularly by people who haven't taken it yet. On paper it just sounds like another semester of Newtonian physics, which is partially true - you'll see some familiar friends like inclined planes, pendulums (pendula?), gyroscopes, etc. Even if the class were just about blocks and pulleys, the methods you will learn in 3318 for finding the equations of motion of classical systems bring to bear the full power of your mathematical background (calc iii, linear algebra, differential equations), and render little old Newton pretty much obsolete. For the more theoretically inclined, this class provides a great introduction into how to build theories with Lagrangians and Hamiltonians, and how to reason about the implications of those theories (ex conserved quantities). In Spring 2023, the icing on the cake was a week or two we spent at the end of the semester talking about non-linear dynamics and chaos, which was fascinating and in typical Maxson style, over the top theatrical. Maxson is one of the most enthusiastic and well-prepared lecturers you will find in the Cornell physics department, in addition to being a genuinely kind human being. If you get the chance to take the class with him, it will be an experience you will not forget. 


## Past Offerings

{:.past-offerings}
| Semester | Professor | Median Grade | Syllabus |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Spring 2017 | Veit Elser |  | <a href="https://uuuuuu.lassp.cornell.edu/courses/physics_3318_spring_2017">PHYS3318_SP17</a> |
| Spring 2021 | Jared Maxson | B+ | <a href="/syllabi/PHYS3318_SP21.pdf">PHYS3318_SP21.pdf</a> |
| Spring 2023 | Jared Maxson | A- |
