---
title:  PHYS 1101 - General Physics 2
layout: post
---

<link rel="stylesheet" href="/main.css">

## General Information
Introductory physics developed without the use of calculus, often taken by students in disciplines such as Biology or Chemistry. Similar in content to PHYS 2207. There are no scheduled lectures, discussion sections, labs, or prelim times. Instruction occurs via one-on-one tutoring in the learning center. 

## Prerequisites
Three years of high school mathematics, including trigonometry.

## Topics Covered
Major topics for PHYS 1101: forces and equilibrium, kinematics, dynamics, momentum, energy, fluid mechanics, waves and sound, thermal physics, and thermodynamics. At the level of College Physics, 5th edition, by Giambattista.

## Workload
Around 8 hours every other week. Generally this course works by having you 1) do a lab, 2) do some written homework, and 3) take a test by a deadline, and if you miss it, you use slip days (you get 10-14 of them). [Fall 2024]

## General Advice
Be as responsible as you can with deadlines and plan out your time; basically you should plan in a way that compensates for unexpected events. [Fall 2024]

## Testimonials
Kept me responsible due to the deadline structure being split into many units. I think it helped considering that I had a calculus (AB and BC) in high school and a physics (C Mechanics and E&M) background. Rating: 4/5. [Fall 2024]

## Resources
- [YouTube Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLzx1UYs2mMLWIpBnc6G1n6WwuCq1Q1Epo)
- [Practice Tests](https://courses.cit.cornell.edu/phys101/p101/)

## Past Offerings

{:.past-offerings}
| Semester | Professor | Median Grade | Syllabus |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Fall 2024 | Patrick Hollister, Nam Jung Kim | B? | N/A |