---
title: PHYS 3327 - Advanced Electricity and Magnetism
layout: post
---

<link rel="stylesheet" href="/main.css">

## General Information



## Prerequisites

Completion of the physics intro sequence. 

## Topics Covered

  - Vector and scalar potentials 
  - Multipole expansion of the potential solutions to Laplace's Equation and boundary value problems
  - Time-dependent electrodynamics
  - Wave guides
  - Electromagnetic radiation (retarded potential)
  - Relativistic electrodynamics
  - Four vectors

## Workload

Weekly problem sets. 2 take-home prelims and a take-home final exam. Overall not much more challenging than the introductory sequence or 3316/3318. 

Get ready to grind. Time consuming weekly problem sets, and in-class 45 minute exams [Fall 2023]

## General Advice

  - Keep up with the work and stay consistent as it is easy to fall behind in the material. Don't try to rush the problem sets. [Fall 2023]

## Testimonials

E&M is already a slog, but this class makes it really feel like a slog. Be prepared to spend a lot of time just doing the problem set. Lectures are helpful because the textbook itself is very dense. The in-class exams are supposed to be like the homework, but the severe time-crunch makes them more difficult than they actually are. The material is definitely more interesting than 2217 though.  An essential course in electromagnetism and another wall of fire to walk through. [Fall 2023]

## Past Offerings

{:.past-offerings}
| Semester | Professor | Median Grade | Syllabus |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Fall 2021 | Lawrence Gibbons | A- |  |
| Fall 2023 | Debanjan Chowdhury |  | <a href="/syllabi/PHYS3327_FA23.pdf">PHYS3327_FA23.pdf</a> |
