---
title:  PHYS 1102 - General Physics 2
layout: post
---

<link rel="stylesheet" href="/main.css">

## General Information
Introductory physics developed without the use of calculus, often taken by students in disciplines such as Biology or Chemistry. Similar in content to PHYS 2207. There are no scheduled lectures, discussion sections, labs, or prelim times. Instruction occurs via one-on-one tutoring in the learning center. 

## Prerequisites
PHYS 1101 or PHYS 1112 or PHYS 2207 or at least a 4 on the AP Physics exam.

## Topics Covered
Electric and magnetic forces and fields, electric currents and circuits, electromagnetic induction, alternating current, electromagnetic waves, optics, interference and diffraction, relativity, quantum physics, and nuclear physics. At the level of College Physics, 5th edition, by Giambattista.

## Workload
Around 8 hours every other week. Generally this course works by having you 1) do a lab, 2) do some written homework, and 3) take a test by a deadline, and if you miss it, you use slip days (you get 10-14 of them). [Spring 2024]

## General Advice
Be as responsible as you can with deadlines and plan out your time; basically you should plan in a way that compensates for unexpected events. [Spring 2024]

## Testimonials
Kept me responsible due to the deadline structure being split into many units. I think it helped considering that I had a calculus (AB and BC) in high school and a physics (C Mechanics and E&M) background. It is generally harder and requires more work than PHYS 1101. Rating: 4/5. [Spring 2024]

## Resources
- [YouTube Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLzx1UYs2mMLWIpBnc6G1n6WwuCq1Q1Epo)
- [Practice Tests](https://courses.cit.cornell.edu/phys101/p102/)

## Past Offerings

{:.past-offerings}
| Semester | Professor | Median Grade | Syllabus |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Spring 2024 | Patrick Hollister, Nam Jung Kim | B? | N/A |