---
title: PHYS 3316 - Basics of Quantum Mechanics
layout: post
---

<link rel="stylesheet" href="/main.css">

## General Information

This is generally the first class taken after the physics intro sequence. While the workload for the class is lower than in the intro sequence, the topics covered are more difficult to conceptualize. The class is pretty self-contained, which is useful if you aren't confident in your math background. Important concepts like eigenvalues and Fourier transforms are taught along the way. You can watch previous online lectures [here](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCqk5h2HlmSVOPQtXFrSHglw/playlists).

## Prerequisites

PHYS 2214/PHYS 2218; PHYS 1116/PHYS1112+PHYS 2216; coregistration in MATH 2940/MATH 2210/MATH 2230.

## Topics Covered

  - Breakdown of classical concepts in microphysics
  - Light quanta and matter waves
  - DeBroglie Hypothesis
  - Schrödinger equation and solutions for square well, harmonic oscillator, and the hydrogen atom
  - Wave packets
  - Scattering and tunneling effects
  - Angular momentum, spin, and magnetic moments

## Workload

Weekly problem sets, two prelims and a final exam. There are three lectures and one discussion section per week. Problem sets with Arias are long and will require a lot of time per week to finish, but the workload varies across professors and semesters. [Fall 2021]

Medium, not really hard just long and tedious [Fall 2022]

12 roughly weekly problem sets across the semester with 6-8 problems typically. Usually contain a mix of Griffiths problems and one or two more challenging/conceptual questions produced by the instructor. Discussions are optional, and helpful near exams. 2 in class prelims and a final. Time was not an issue on most exams. Difficulty varied. [Fall 2022]

Read Griffiths [Fall 2022]

## General Advice

3316 uses Griffith's quantum mechanics textbook very heavily. The course follows the first 5 chapters, starting with an introduction to the 1D Schrodinger equation. It then progresses to solving the Schrodinger equation for a variety of potentials, like the harmonic oscillator and delta well. The course touches on Dirac notation and some of the more abstract matrix formalism, and then proceeds to the 3D Schrodinger equation (Hydrogen Atom, angular momentum, spin) and some many electron statistics (bosons, fermions, free electron gas, etc). If you like Griffiths, you will more or less like this course [Fall 2022]

At least in Fall 2022, interpreting the results of quantum mechanics was a major point of emphasis, but the experimental development of quantum mechanics was de-emphasized compared to previous years. Our professor was a theorist, so this is somewhat natural. Different strokes for different folks, I suppose. [Fall 2022]

## Testimonials

I like the subject matter, I just didnt vibe with the prof and lecture style [Fall 2022]

As a 3 credit course with somewhat generous exams, this class was relatively stress-free. While a lot of quantum mechanics involves churning through calculations that are difficult to interpret initially, the results towards the second half of the semester are fascinating and profound - fully solving the Hydrogen atom, exploring the periodic table quantum mechanically, explaining conduction bands in materials, etc. Additionally, Prof. LeClair had his strengths as a lecturer. He had a strong command of the material and his reasoning was very clear. However, many of his lectures did closely follow the book. People have mixed feelings about this. [Fall 2022]

## Past Offerings

{:.past-offerings}
| Semester | Professor | Median Grade | Syllabus |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Spring 2021 | Tomás Arias | B+ | <a href="/syllabi/PHYS3316_SP21.pdf">PHYS3316_SP21.pdf</a> |
| Fall 2022 | Andre LeClair | B+ | <a href="/syllabi/PHYS3316_FA22.pdf">PHYS3316_FA22.pdf</a> |
