---
title: PHYS 4454 - Introductory Solid State Physics
layout: post
---

<link rel="stylesheet" href="/main.css">

## General Information

Introduction to the physics of crystalline solids. The majority of the course addresses the foundations of the subject, but time is devoted to modern and/or technologically important topics such as quantum size effects. At the level of Introduction to Solid State Physics by Kittel or Solid State Physics by Ashcroft and Mermin.

## Prerequisites

Highly recommended prerequisite: PHYS 4443, AEP 3620, or CHEM 7930.

## Topics Covered

  - Crystal structures
  - Diffraction
  - Electronic states and density functional theory
  - Lattice vibrations
  - Metals, insulators, and semiconductors
  - Optical properties
  - Magnetism
  - Superconductivity

## Workload

1 pset a week, takes about 10-12 hours, going into office hours is very helpful [Fall 2024]

## General Advice

  - Make sure to review derivations and be sure you understand where material is developed from, assumptions, etc. [Fall 2023]
  - Working with other students in office hours was very helpful in completing homeworks. Could not have completed this course without working together on psets. [Fall 2024]

## Testimonials

Lectures can be pretty opaque and difficult to follow, but content is interesting and useful. Ashcroft and Mermin is tough to read. Homeworks are reasonable and help build understanding but can sometimes be tough. Rating 4/5 [Fall 2023]

The first half of this course is all about lattices! It is somewhat straightforward if you are good at 3D visualization. It is still doable if not. The second half is much heavier on long calculations and focuses on quantum phenomena. You also get to look at semiconductors which can be interesting. Overall, a really tough course but you will learn a lot. Rating: 4/5. [Fall 2024]

## Past Offerings

{:.past-offerings}
| Semester | Professor | Median Grade | Course Page |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Fall 2022 | David Muller |  | <a href="/syllabi/PHYS4454_FA22.pdf">PHYS4454_FA22.pdf</a> |
| Fall 2023 | David Muller | A | |
| Fall 2024 | Kenji Yasuda | N/A | <a href="/syllabi/PHYS4454_FA24.pdf">PHYS4454_FA24.pdf</a> |
