---
title: PHYS 4230/AEP 4230 - Statistical Thermodynamics
layout: post
---

<link rel="stylesheet" href="/main.css">

## General Information

Quantum statistical basis for equilibrium thermodynamics, microcanonical, canonical and grand canonical ensembles, and partition functions. Classical and quantum ideal gases, paramagnetic and multiple-state systems. Maxwell-Boltzmann, Fermi-Dirac, and Bose-Einstein statistics and applications. Introduction to systems of interacting particles. Required for the physics inside concentration. 

## Prerequisites

Junior level quantum mechanics, electricity and magnetism, and mathematics at the level of  AEP 3610, AEP 3550, AEP 3200 and AEP 4200.

## Topics Covered

  - Review of Thermodynamics
    - Thermodynamic Variables
    - Laws
    - Ensembles
    - Legendre Transformations
    - Maxwell Relations
  - Probability
    - Discrete and Continuous Variables
    - Random Walk Problem
  - Classical Statistical Mechanics
    - Liouville’s Theorem
    - The Microcanonical Ensemble
    - The Canonical Ensemble
      - Master Functions
      - Partition Functions
    - The Grand Canonical Ensemble
  - Quantum Statistical Mechanics
    - Correspondence Principle
    - Ensembles and Partition Functions
    - Bose-Einstein Statistics
    - Fermi-Dirac Statistics
    - Maxwell-Boltzmann Statistics
    - The Classical Limit
  - Applications
    - Crystals-Specific Heat
      - Classical Model
      - Einstein Model
      - Debye Solution
    - Black Body Equilibrium
    - Chemical Equilibrium
    - Phase Changes
      - Superconductivity
      - Clausius-Clapeyron Equation
      - Magnetism
        - Ferromagnetism
        - Paramagnetism
        - The Ising Model

## Workload

Weekly problem sets, two prelims, and a final exam. [Fall 2022]

Professor Fennie does not require homework to be turned in so, at least when I took it, the workload was very much dependent on how much time you wanted to put into the class. So, if you're confident with the material, the workload ends up being very light, but there are a lot of optional homeworks assigned so doing all of those would make the workload of the class more on par with other physics classes. [Fall 2023]

Bi-weekly problem sets (optional problem sets on the week of prelim), two prelims, and a final exam. Heavy woarkload in terms of difficulty.[Fall 2025]

## General Advice

  - Go to discussions, go to office hours, go to lectures! [Spring 2026]

## Testimonials
  - I absolutely love this class, although studying for it is both satisfying and traumatizing. Professor Rivera is a really good lecturer—very logical, and he gives immediate clear, satisfying answers to any questions. However, his lectures go quickly, so you have to pay attention all the time, and the homework and exams are hard. But the grading ends up being fine. The content is also very interesting, as you learn how to derive our physical world using simple statistical assumptions. [Spring 2026]

## Resources
- <a href="https://cohengroup.ccmr.cornell.edu/courses/phys341/phys341.htm">PHYS 3341 FA14 Course Material and Lecture Notes</a>

## Past Offerings

{:.past-offerings}
| Semester | Professor | Median Grade | Syllabus |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Fall 2025 | Nicholas Rivera | <a href="/syllabi/PHYS4230_FA25.pdf">PHYS4230_FA22.pdf</a> |
| Fall 2022 | Bruce Kusse |  | <a href="/syllabi/PHYS4230_FA22.pdf">PHYS4230_FA22.pdf</a> |
| Fall 2023 | Craig Fennie |  | <a href="/syllabi/PHYS4230_FA23.pdf">PHYS4230_FA23.pdf</a> |
